
ARTS > OFFICE OF THE ARTS > CREATIVE RESOURCES > CREATING AN ART EXHIBITION
CREATING AN ART EXHIBITION
Would you like to present an art exhibition at Brandeis? Here are some suggestions for a successful show.

Show Me … Why and When?
Six to eight weeks before you open the exhibit, take the following first steps.

Develop your purpose. Why you are interested in presenting this exhibition to the Brandeis community? Create a title for the exhibit and write a brief statement of purpose, including the topic and any related curriculum or community interests you want to explore. The title should be short, memorable and illuminating. The statement does not need to be scholarly, but it should reflect your intent and seriousness in bringing your exhibition to the community.
Invite a faculty member to support your proposed exhibit and serve as an advisor on the project. If you don’t know of anyone, the Office of the Arts can help you locate faculty with relevant expertise.
Pick your dates. Exhibitions usually stay up for seven to 10 days – you want to include one weekend. Remember to allow one day for preparing the exhibit and one day for removing it. Consider the academic calendar as well as other events taking place on campus. Try to avoid competing with similar events. Three-day weekends, religious holidays, vacations, reading days and final exam periods are not usually the best times for an exhibition, but you could plan yours as a “welcome back” event.
Post your event on the myBrandeis Calendar. The Office of the Arts consults the myBrandeis Calendar for the Upcoming Arts Events Web page. Please post your event during the month prior to your event.
Throughout your planning process, look for partnership opportunities. You may want to invite a department, program or club to co-sponsor the exhibition and add programming such as a related talk or symposium. The extra time it takes to collaborate pays off in a broader audience and valuable new relationships.
See Creating an Audience for many more suggestions on publicity and communications.

Finding Your Space
There are some wonderful exhibition spaces on the Brandeis campus, but they are not plentiful. Consider whether you need a secure site – one that is monitored or locked to ensure the safety of the art. Also consider whether you would like the exhibition to be in an actual gallery space or a general public venue. Following is a list of possible sites. If you know of others, please let us know.

Complete the Space Request Form (PDF) and send it to the contact person for the space for which you are applying. This will provide them with all the information they need to make sure you have chosen the best site for your exhibition.

The Dreitzer Gallery in the Spingold Theater Center is used several times a year by the Department of Fine Arts for student exhibitions, particularly during the spring semester. It may be available at other times. Contact Leslie Chiu in the Theater Department.
The Shapiro Campus Center Gallery on the third floor is private and secure, but can be hard for the general public to find. The first-floor lounge can also be used for exhibitions, but is not secure. Contact the Department of Student Activities.
Slosberg Music Center Lobby. Existing artwork must be moved and reinstalled, and walls need to be repaired and repainted. Contact Mark Kagan, academic adminstrator.
Goldfarb Library does not have a formal gallery space, but it does have places where art can be exhibited and made available to the public. Contact Patricia Flanagan at LTS. For the display cases in the Creative Arts section, contact librarian Lisa Zeidenberg.
Chum’s. Contact the Department of Student Activities.
Intercultural Center Lounge (Swig Center). Contact Monique Gnanaratnam, director.
Sachar International Center, Brandeis International Business School. There is a small space available in the World Court area; unguarded, 24-hour access. Contact Karen Muise, program administrator for student services.
Schneider Building, Heller School. Contact Charlotte Benham, department coordinator.
Brown. The Anthropology Department’s Material Culture Study Center Committee oversees the display cases on the second floor. Contact Laurel Carpenter, academic administrator.
The Women’s Studies Research Center houses the Kniznick Gallery, devoted to artwork by or about women. Professional exhibitions related to the center’s scholarly research are planned six to 18 months in advance by scholars and the curator, and the space is generally not available for student exhibitions. If you have a suggestion for an exhibition, email wsrc-arts@brandeis.edu
The Rose Art Museum presents professional artists and works from the museum's permanent collection. Its programming is developed by the museum’s director and curator 12 to 24 months in advance. The Rose does not exhibit work by students.
Creating an Audience
See Creating an Audience for ideas.

Preparing Your Exhibition
Curators spend a lot of time preparing and hanging exhibits to make them look clean, professional and inviting. This is about more than just hammers and nails – it is a creative opportunity to help communicate the meaning of the work. For technical advice on hanging work, contact Jon Koppel, studio technician in the Fine Arts Department.

Visit the exhibition site in advance. Draw a diagram of the exhibit space with approximate dimensions of each wall area. Will horizontals fit, or will a vertical format work better? What groupings might be interesting? What are the walls made of: wood, plaster, concrete? Are there permanent hooks installed or must you provide your own?
Before you transport work to the exhibition site:
Make sure the space is unlocked and that the people who manage the space know you are coming.
Make a list of all the pieces you plan to show so that you can make sure you haven’t forgotten anything.
Gather all the supplies you need: hammer, pliers, tape measure, pencil, masking tape, hooks, wire, cutters, ladder, etc. (Some of these materials might be available to you at the site. Just ask!)
Find out about any restrictions on hanging work: can you use tape, nails, tacks, T-pins?
When you install the show, take along extra pieces of art. You need to have alternatives on hand in case the ones you thought would look best may not work. And bring friends who are handy!
Remember that less is more. Give each piece the space it needs to "breathe" – about three feet between pieces is a good idea.
I’m Hung Up on You
Avoid damaging fragile edges and corners by padding the work during installation or hanging.
Always place artwork on padding – a blanket, bubble wrap or foam – when resting it on hard surfaces. Don’t lay it flat on the floor. Someone will step on it.
Never handle, move or hang large works of art alone. You can easily damage the art, or yourself.
Hanging a show always takes longer than you expect. Leave plenty of time for adjustments, and don’t think you can hang a show between classes.
The Art of Content and Presentation
At Brandeis, we like to think art is more than just room decoration. Take some time to help deepen the experience of the people who will view the exhibition. This doesn’t mean telling them what to think. There are creative ways to provide a context and point of view that invite the viewer to experience his or her own thoughts and feelings.

Create wall text or a handout with a statement about the show. This can be based on your earlier statement of purpose, but directed to the viewing public. Why this exhibit? Why now? What does it communicate? Who made the art? When and why did they make it?
The statement does not need to be a manifesto. If someone took photos on a road trip, and just wants everyone to see them, maybe that’s all you need to say. On the other hand, wall text can be poetic and powerful – creative writing is an art, too.
Visit the Rose Art Museum or the Museum of Fine Arts in Boston (free with your Brandeis ID!) for examples of wall text and curatorial statements.
Consider an audio tour that viewers can listen to on an MP3 player. You can even include music that illuminates or helps set the tone of the exhibition.
Provide a clear and proud statement of authorship and sponsorship. For example: "The Brandeis Photographic Society presents “Winterscapes,” new work by its 2011-12 members. Sponsored by the Department of Student Activities with assistance from the Department of Fine Arts. Curators: Joe College ’12 and Fannie FirstYear ’13."
If you are presenting an exhibition of work created elsewhere (not by members of the Brandeis community), your statement should include a notice saying so. For example: “This exhibition is sponsored by the Martian Pirates Society of Waltham. Brandeis University does not necessarily endorse its content.”
Make labels for individual pieces or compile a list of all the pieces to distribute to viewers. Include the name of piece and the artist’s name and affiliation. Media (watercolor, acrylic, ceramic, etc.) and dimensions are optional.
Put out a guest book for people to record their comments and addresses.
Arts and Cheese: The Opening Reception
Your opening reception serves several purposes. It welcomes the public and your friends, deepens the viewer’s experience of the work and makes connections between the artists and the community.

Specify the community connections for your exhibition. Invite key people from academic departments, research centers and other organizations on campus to attend the reception. Ask one or two of them to contribute a quote to your exhibition statement (be sure to give them plenty of time to do so). How about the off-campus community? Consider inviting key people from local organizations who share an interest in art or the topic of the exhibition. Visit www.discoverwaltham.com for lists of such organizations.
Design an eye-catching e-vite or postcard invitation. Develop a mailing list of your friends, members of your organization, board members, alumni and so forth. Post an image from the exhibition as your Facebook profile.
It won’t be an opening without a cheese platter! Contact the people who manage the space to discuss any restrictions on serving refreshments at your reception.
Skip the cheese and crackers for something that is more unusual and perhaps even related to the exhibition. Ask a local restaurant or grocery store to donate food. They will often do so, in return for your posting a sign that thanks them for their donation. And if you do decide to go with clean, classy cubes of cheese, you might enjoy this optional reading: www.murrayscheese.com and www.cheese.com.
Is there a table available for refreshments, or will you need to bring one? What is required of you in terms of cleanup? Ask some friends in advance to help.
Show Over: After the Exhibition Closes
Take down your show on the day assigned and remove all hooks and nails. Return any tools you’ve borrowed. If you are required to spackle or repaint the walls, do so – and leave the space clean. You should anticipate the time and cost of this process. For advice about how to repair walls after you remove hooks and nails, contact Jon Koppel, studio technician in the Fine Arts Department.

Let the location managers know that you are done and have restored the space to its original condition. Send them a note or e-mail thanking them for "hosting" your event.
Read your guest book! It’s a great way to get honest audience feedback. Be sure to enter the names and addresses into your mailing list.
Document the process. Keep a binder with copies of your budget, receipts for expenses, copies of promotional materials, e-mails and letters. You or your organization may want to do it again.

Organize an Exhibition of Your Paintings
How to arrange an art exhibition and, crucially, get people to come see it.

From Denise MacGregor
See More About:selling paintingsart as a careerpainting exhibitions

Denise MacGregor at the opening of one of her exhibitions

Photo copyright Denise MacGregor
More Images (2)
Ads
Low Cost Giclee Printing
Your Paintings & Photos On Canvas and Watercolor Paper. No Minimum.
www.AmericanArtEditions.com
Download Painter 12
Get the Lastest Version of Painter. Try It For Free Today at Corel.com!
Corel.com
Personalized Canvas Art
Personalized Canvas Art. Free Personalization. 1-2 Days Shipping!
www.personalizationmall.com
Painting Ads
Fine Art Print
Art UK
Fine Art Course
Abstract Art Gallery
Fine Art Canvas
Ads
Data.com
Boost Your Win Rate with Data.com Business Leads for $125/Mo.
www.salesforce.com/data
TimeClock Plus
Time clocks to track employee hours Streamline the payroll process
www.timeclockplus.com
It’s one thing being an established and famous artist, where all you have to do is paint the pictures and hand them over to an agent, then show up for the preview evening. It’s another to be at the beginning of your career as an artist.

Most of us have to plan our own shows, as I have done over the last few years, and there is a lot of work involved if you want to get the most out of your art exhibition. I was fortunate in that I worked as a gallery assistant for artist Nerys Johnson when I was at Durham University, and assisted her with preparing for her shows. Even though she was an established artist, there was still a lot to be done.

After you have planned an exhibition of your work, you will see that the commission galleries request is well worth the effort they put in!

In the Beginning: Your First Art Exhibition
First of all, you must secure your ‘gallery space’. I had my first solo art exhibition at Pizza Express in Darlington, UK. As a corporation, they have a huge commitment to the arts, in particular local artists. Their restaurants are often designed as galleries themselves, and they know that their customers really appreciate the ever-changing work on their walls.

Restaurants might be a good place to start, it works for both the restaurant in terms of attracting customers, and the artist. It is also a good place to get over your ‘art exhibition anxiety’ in a far less intimidating atmosphere than a public gallery. They charge no commission, but you have to do the work yourself…from the hanging to the promotion and subsequent sales. So, it is from this perspective that I write.


Pricing Paintings in an Art Exhibition
Deciding what to charge for your work at an exhbition.

From Denise MacGregor
See More About:selling paintingsart as a careerpainting exhibitions

Photo copyright Denise MacGregor
Ads
Low Cost Giclee Printing
Your Paintings & Photos On Canvas and Watercolor Paper. No Minimum.
www.AmericanArtEditions.com
Need your Art Appraised?
Verbal or written evaluation. 43 years experience. Call us today!
www.matthewsgalleries.com
Buy Quality Horse Art
Classy horse, pet & animal art! Framed art, original paintings.
www.RohdeFineArt.com
Painting Ads
Fine Art Print
Fine Art Canvas
Fine Art Paintings
Clip Art Borders
Oil Painting
(Continued from Page 1)
Pricing Paintings in an Art Exhibition
Pricing is always the most difficult part of the process. Particularly when you are on your own. There has been a lot written about pricing art, so I won’t go into detail here, but generally I rely on instinct. I keep a list of my paintings, both on the computer and in hard copy, with thumbnails, sizes and prices on which I update regularly.

Each of your paintings in the show will need a title/price card, which in its simplest form can be the back of your business card or, as I do now, a small clip frame beside each work, which looks more professional. I often make a mini ‘exhibition guide’ similar to my paintings list for people to take away with them, but if your paintings are well priced, I don’t think that is absolutely necessary. They are, however, useful for tracking your pricing structure over the years.

Having Something for Everyone in an Exhibition
Not everyone can afford to purchase original work, so I try to have something to offer those who cannot. For instance, I have had Giclee prints made of some of my more popular pieces, and I always have a selection of greetings cards which I make on the computer, available during the exhibition. I find these sell very well. There are wholesale outlets for purchasing really nice card stock, envelopes, plastic wrappers, etc. I use a company in England called Craft Creations; a company that makes a low-cost version which is perfectly okay is Vistaprint.

Organising an Exhibition Preview 
I love a good party, and I usually invite my friends to a preview evening, prior to the event actually opening. It’s nice to have that support, and it can be as simple or complex as you wish, but I find that wine and light finger food works well. One of the good things about being in a restaurant is that they can always stay for dinner afterwards if they wish. Another thing I have done in the past which works very well for me is to plan a fundraising evening during the run of the show. I have friends in this field, and together we have raised quite a lot of money for various charities, and it has brought more people in to see my work. They will generally promote it themselves, so it is certainly another audience to consider.

And, most of all, during the preview party, enjoy yourself. Enjoy your friends, and most of all, enjoy the accomplishment of seeing your work on display. Take compliments and feedback with grace, and get ready to make a trip to the bank. I sold three pieces on my first preview evening for 500 pounds, 375 pounds, and 75 pounds. It was hard to believe that people would actually part with their hard-earned cash for my work. I keep a photograph of that evening where I can see it all the time. It gets me through the difficult times.
Planning an Art Exhibition
I spent a couple of years developing a body of work before I was ready to exhibit on my own, so the assumption is that you have a decent collection of work to show. Then I developed an art exhibition plan which listed all the things which needed to be done prior to the opening.

The first thing to do is to establish the dates, allowing time to have some promotion materials printed. It is useful also to give your art exhibition a name. I do it by picking out one painting, and working my promotion materials around that. My first art exhibition was Firebird and I chose a Bird of Paradise painting I was fond of. My 2004 one was Catch the Vision to go with a series of my visioning courses held during the run of the show. I find a postcard-sized art card is particularly useful, as they can be mailed to your contact list, and the remainder left for people to take when they visit.

Creating an Art Exhibition Mailing List
This is very important. If you have not started one, do so now. I use Microsoft Access for this and, whenever I meet anyone, their name goes on the list. If you do not have access to a computer, a secretarial service will maintain one for you and provide you with a set of labels when you are ready. Remember to send your cards out to everyone you can think of…every time one goes out it adds to your name recognition, and therefore to increased prices. Don’t forget regional galleries and the media in your area. They will notice an art card more than one of the hundreds of press releases they receive on a daily basis!

Writing Press Releases for an Art Exhibition
Having said that about art cards, I don’t mean that press releases are not important. They are. Try to find an interesting angle and invite specific writers to your opening. My first article was in conjunction with a national story my local paper was working on. You will need to write an Artist’s Statement and/or a ‘About the Artist’ piece to hang in a prominent position. I think it is a good idea to include these along with your press releases.

The Paintings in the Art Exhibition
I think it is important to make a gallery plan to give you an idea of how you are going to hang your work, and the number of pieces you will require. It doesn’t have to be set in stone, as you can always make changes when you are hanging, but having a plan takes the worry about not having enough work available.

Be sure to have someone lined up to help you with the hanging. Even though I have an eye for where things should go, I am really useless when it comes to the technicalities of hanging pictures in a straight line. I have a couple of friends who can do it to perfection…for the price of lunch!

And don’t leave the framing until the last minute. At one of my shows, my regular framer went on holiday two weeks before my opening, and I still had work to frame. Fortunately I found another good framer who I have consistently used since then. Even so, it is best to get this done as early as you can.
 
the how to manual that you can edit
Sign Up or Log In or Log In via
Follow us on Pinterest
HomeArticlesCommunityMy Profile

Edit
Home » Categories » Arts and Entertainment » Exhibited Arts
How to Set Up an Art Exhibition
Edited byTara Lothian and 26 others
Article
Edit Discuss History



Whether you're exhibiting your own artwork or someone else's, setting up an art exhibition can be a creative, fulfilling endeavor in and of itself. However, it does have its challenges and you'll need good planning to pull it off.
Ads by Google
Your Own Online Store All in One Website & Online Store, 35,000+ Live Stores, Free Trial.
www.Volusion.com
EditSteps

1Choose a theme. It’s not enough to simply have lots of artwork you’d like to exhibit; in order to tie each piece together, you need to come up with a focus. More importantly, however, this doubles as a marketing technique – especially for little-known or unknown artists – by drawing people who are specifically interested in the concept being explored. For this reason, it’s important not to be vague; “Light and Shadow” isn’t going to have people lining up to see an exhibit.
Ads by Google
Download Painter 12 Get the Lastest Version of Painter. Try It For Free Today at Corel.com!
Corel.com
Choosing a theme will also help with a few of the more practical aspects of the exhibit, such as what to title it and which other artists might be included.
2Find other artists to exhibit with. Browse at local art clubs or street markets where you see artists with good work on sale. Ask anyone you know who is an artist in your community. Artists with related (or even contradictory) themes will help create a group momentum.
Don’t limit yourself to artists within your own medium. Consider paintings, sculptures, models, photos, glasswork, performance pieces, etc. to create dynamic collaborations.
3Find a location for your exhibition. Renting a portion of a studio is always a possibility, especially if you have connections in the art community. Depending on the scale of the project, however, many different kinds of spaces will do, including a warehouse, restaurant, café, library, or even someone's home. Ensure that the space chosen is well-presented, clean, and appropriately sized for your exhibit.
Be sure to choose a place that is thematically appropriate for your work. A modern space with laminated flooring and white or pale, un-patterned walls will go with just about any exhibit; however, if your exhibit has an industrial, outdoorsy, dark, romantic, or sterile atmosphere, a comfortable modern setting might not give it the right context.
Pay particular attention to available lighting. Large windows can be good, and track lighting can be especially useful in illuminating the work.
4Set a date. Give yourself plenty of time to pull everything together or else you might end up with a sloppy job and poor sales. It is always best to hold an art exhibition so that it includes a weekend. This will allow those working during weekdays to attend and often families will make an outing of the event.
If you have any idea what the weather's going to be like around the time of your exhibition, try to go for a dark, cold, rainy couple of days. You don't want to compete with beachballs and picnics for your viewers' time.
5Set prices. Consider all of your costs including the fee for renting the space, the materials, advertising, the artist's share, your share, and any percentage donated to charity. Decide whether an admission fee will be necessary or appropriate.
6Be sales-savvy. In addition to selling the artwork, it can also be profitable to print cards with photos of the artwork and sell in packs of five or so. If a percentage (or all) of the proceeds go to charity, there's a better chance people will come and buy the artwork.
7Tackle the red tape. Among other things, you will need art-exhibit/event insurance (or signed waivers from the artists), a schedule and helpers to coordinate artwork drop-offs and pick-ups, the particulars of how each piece should be presented, placed, hung, lighted, etc., the artists' resumes (to keep on hand and in a binder for the show), a master price list, gallery sitters to stay with the work at all times (perhaps requiring participating artists to do a shift), and other logistical details. The best way to address these issues is to go to other shows, openings, and galleries and brainstorm with people who have done it on your area.
8Advertise the exhibition. Create post cards for the artists to send as invitations. Consider doing press releases for higher-level exhibits. Put up posters around local art schools, universities, trendy areas, cafes, clubs, or even supermarket bulletin boards. Get in touch with local newspapers and tell them about the upcoming exhibition.
9

 Set up the exhibition space. Set up the exhibition space. Imagine how a visitor will interact with the room. Obviously, the arrangement will need to have a visual flow, but you should also consider physically directing people through the space to make them participants as well as viewers. Which piece will they see first? What direction are the likely to move in? Are there any “dead” areas? Would hampered movement perhaps be more appropriate to the theme of the exhibit?
Consider adding descriptions to any or all of the pieces.
Ensure that there are signs indicating whether or not people may touch or interact with the pieces.
Always make the prices clearly visible.
Transport the artwork carefully. Remember that stacking heavy, framed pieces can result it shattered glass. Arrange the artwork in the space using your own judgment.
10Entertain with food and drink. If you can afford it, offer beverages such as champagne, wine and non-alcoholic choices, along with finger food or a buffet. Or, reserve this just for the opening night or morning to share among those who come to an invitation-only opening.
If it is an elegant affair, serve finger foods like shrimp, falafel, and mini-quiches. Provide a pleasant background atmosphere.
If it enhances the experience, play music at a low level, especially at the end when people start leaving.
Ads by Google
Need your Art Appraised? Verbal or written evaluation. 43 years experience. Call us today!
www.matthewsgalleries.com
Tips to Succeed 14 Ideas for Promoting Your Business - Download Free Now!
PRWeb.com
Small Business Insurance Easy Insurance Quote Comparisons. Get Unbeatable Low Online Rates!
www.NetQuote.com

EditTips

Be sure to give your artists proper credit. Ask them if they can all attend to be able to discuss their artwork with guests.

 Themed art opening If you want a theme, ask your artists to dress according to the theme. If the event is classy, dress classy. If the theme is Victorian, dress in elegant Victorian clothes. You must, too - the hosts really must participate.
Play the host as much as possible, introduce artists potential buyers to spark conversations. Flit about like a social butterfly.
Take care in hanging your artwork at an appropriate height. A common choice is to hang images so that their center is 60" from the floor.
If raising money for charity, it might be a good idea to have an auctioneer or a silent auction.

Ads by Google
House Painting Estimates Find Top-Rated Painting Pros in Your Area. Get 4 Free Bids Today!
www.ServiceMagic.com
Errors & Omissions Ins Find Cheap Business Insurance Quick & Easy - Just Enter Zip Code!
Business.InsuranceQuotes.com
Natural Wonders Gallery Palazzo Las Vegas- offering Limited Edition Fine Art Photography
www.natural-wonders-gallery.com
EditRelated wikiHows

How to Run an Art Gallery
How to Set up a Community Garden
How to Set up a Family Portrait
How to Select Art for Your Home
How to View an Art Exhibit
How to Visit an Art Gallery
How to Buy an Art Gallery
How to Title Your Work of Art
How to Hire an Appraiser
How to Clean an Oil Painting

EditSources and Citations

Setting up a photo exhibition
Surviving Your 1st Art Show
How to Set Up and Run A Successful Art Show – a very detailed description
Articles for You to Write

Here is a list of suggested articles that have not yet been written. You can help by researching and writing one of these articles. To get started writing one of these articles, click on the red link of a title below.

How to Select Art
How to Make Art Posters
How to Photographic Lighting Setups
How to Sell Art in an Online Gallery
How to Create a Home Art Gallery
Article Info

Featured Article
Last edited:
March 1, 2012 by Sarah_E
Categories:
Featured Articles | Exhibited Arts
Recent edits by: Jmuddy95, OPEN door, Denise (see all)
In other languages
Español: Como organizar una exhibición de arte
Article Tools

Share this Article: 
Discuss Print Email Edit Send fan mail to authors
+ Embed this: Republish this entire article on your blog or website.
Ads by Google
TimeClock Plus Time clocks to track employee hours Streamline the payroll process
www.timeclockplus.comMoleskine® Official Site Full Range of Moleskine® Products Free Shipping On Any Order Today!
www.moleskineus.com
Thanks to all authors for creating a page that has been read 167,590 times.
Was this article accurate?
Yes
No
Write An ArticleRandom Article

Related Articles
 
Use Wine Bottle Labels As Art
 
Make Rangoli
 
Remove a Painting from a Frame
 
Enjoy a Museum
Ads by Google
Fine Art Print
Fine Art Canvas
Google Art
Learn About Art
Photographic Art

Hide all ads - Why?
Featured Articles
 
Swim to Stay Fit
 
Fix a Shaky Table at a Restaurant
 
Build Self Confidence
 
Read, Understand, and Use Expected Progeny Differences (EPDs) in Cattle
Meet a Community Member

Meet Martyn, a student, Harry Potter geek, and aspiring doctor who feels strongly about helping people. His favorite things to do on wikiHow include changing article titles (an admin task) and boosting new articles. During his 5 years on wikiHow, he's made over 7,500 edits, patrolled more than 16,500 edits, and written 17 articles.
Join The Community
- collapse Things to Do
Write an Article
Edit this Article
Request a New Article
Answer a Request
Login for more!
+ expand Places to Visit
Follow Us On...

the how to manual that you can edit
Home
About wikiHow
Terms of Use
RSS
Site map

Explore Categories
Arts and Entertainment Cars and Other Vehicles Computers and Electronics Education and Communications Family Life Finance and Business Food and Entertaining Health Hobbies and Crafts Holidays and Traditions Home and Garden Other Personal Care and Style Pets and Animals Philosophy and Religion Relationships Sports and Fitness Travel wikiHow Work World Youth
All text shared under a Creative Commons License. Powered by Mediawiki.
x
Thank Our Volunteer Authors.
Give this article a +1.


Art exhibition
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia
  (Redirected from Art show)


This Year Venuses Again!, 1864. Honoré Daumier satirizes the bourgeoisie scandalized by the Paris Salon's Venuses.
Art exhibitions are traditionally the space in which art objects (in the most general sense) meet an audience. The exhibit is universally understood to be for some temporary period unless, as is rarely true, it is stated to be a "permanent exhibition". In American English, they may be called "exhibit", "exposition" (the French word) or "show". In UK English, they are always called "exhibitions" or "shows", and an individual item in the show is an "exhibit".
Such expositions may present pictures, drawings, video, sound, installation, performance, interactive art or sculptures by individual artists, groups of artists or collections of a specific form of art. The art works may be presented in museums, art halls, art clubs or private art galleries, or at some place the principal business of which is not the display or sale of art, such as a coffeehouse. An important distinction is noted between those exhibits where some or all of the works are for sale, normally in private art galleries, and those where they are not. Sometimes the event is organized on a specific occasion, like a birthday, anniversary or commemoration.
Contents  [hide] 
1 Types of exhibitions
2 History
3 Preservation issues
3.1 Environmental concerns of the exhibition space
3.2 Length of the exhibition
3.3 Individual cases
3.4 Display methods
3.5 Security
4 See also
5 Notes
6 References
7 External links
[edit]Types of exhibitions



Exhibition space being readied for a show at the Arthur M. Sackler Gallery
There are different kinds of art exhibitions, in particular there is a distinction between commercial and non-commercial exhibitions. Temporary museum exhibitions typically display items from the museum's own collection on a particular period, theme or topic, supplemented by loans from other collections, mostly those of other museums. They normally include no items for sale; they are distinguished from the museum's permanent displays, and most large museums set aside a space for temporary exhibitions. Exhibitions in commercial galleries are often entirely made up of items that are for sale, but may be supplemented by other items that are not. Typically, the visitor has to pay (extra on top of the basic museum entrance cost) to enter a museum exhibition, but not a commercial one in a gallery. Retrospectives look back over the work of a single artist; other common types are individual expositions or "solo shows", group expositions, or expositions on a specific theme or topic. The Biennale is a large exhibition held every two years, often intending to gather together the best of international art; there are now many of these. A travelling exhibition is another category of art exhibition.
Exhibitions of new or recent art can be juried, invitational, or open.
A juried exhibition, such as the Royal Academy Summer Exhibition in London, the Chianciano Biennale at the Chianciano Museum of Art, or the Iowa Biennial, has an individual (or group) acting as judge of the submitted artworks, selecting which are to be shown. If prizes are to be awarded, the judge or panel of judges will usually select the prizewinners as well.
In an invitational exhibition, such as the Whitney Biennial, the organizer of the show asks certain artists to supply artworks and exhibits them.
An open or "non-juried" exhibition, such as the Kyoto Triennial,[1] allows anybody to enter artworks and shows them all. A type of exhibition that is usually non-juried is a mail art exhibition.
[edit]History



"A Slight Attack of Third Dimentia Brought on by Excessive Study of the Much Talked of Cubist Pictures in the International Exhibition at New York," drawn by John French Sloan in April 1913, satirizing the Armory Show.
The art exhibition has played a crucial part in the market for new art since the 18th and 19th centuries. The Paris Salon, open to the public from 1737, rapidly became the key factor in determining the reputation, and so the price, of the French artists of the day. The Royal Academy in London, beginning in 1769, soon established a similar grip on the market, and in both countries artists put great efforts into making pictures that would be a success, often changing the direction of their style to meet popular or critical taste. The British Institution was added to the London scene in 1805, holding two annual exhibitions, one of new British art for sale, and one of loans from the collections of its aristocratic patrons. These exhibitions received lengthy and detailed reviews in the press, which were the main vehicle for the art criticism of the day. Critics as distinguished as Denis Diderot and John Ruskin held their readers attention by sharply divergent reviews of different works, praising some extravagantly and giving others the most savage put-downs they could think of. Many of the works were already sold, but success at these exhibitions was a crucial way for an artist to attract more commissions. Among important early one-off loan exhibitions of older paintings were the Art Treasures Exhibition, Manchester 1857, and the Exhibition of National Portraits in London, at what is now the Victoria and Albert Museum, held in three stages in 1866-68.
As the academic art promoted by the Paris Salon, always more rigid than London, was felt to be stifling French art, alternative exhibitions, now generally known as the Salon des Refusés ("Salon of the Refused") were held, most famously in 1863, when the government allowed them an annex to the main exhibition for a show that included Édouard Manet's Luncheon on the Grass (Le déjeuner sur l’herbe) and James McNeill Whistler's Girl in White. This began a period where exhibitions, often one-off shows, were crucial in exposing the public to new developments in art, and eventually Modern art. Important shows of this type were the Armory Show in New York City in 1913 and the London International Surrealist Exhibition in 1936.
Museums started holding large loan exhibitions of historic art in the late 19th century, as also did the Royal Academy, but the modern "blockbuster" museum exhibition, with long queues and a large illustrated catalogue, is generally agreed to have been introduced by the exhibitions of artifacts from the tomb of Tutankhamun held in several cities in the 1970s. Many exhibitions, especially in the days before good photographs were available, are important in stimulating research in art history; the exhibition held in Bruges in 1902 (poster illustrated below) had a crucial impact on the study of Early Netherlandish painting.
[edit]Preservation issues

Main article: Preservation: Library and Archival Science
Although preservation issues are often disregarded in favor of other priorities during the exhibition process, they should certainly be considered so that possible damage to the collection is minimized or limited. As all objects in the library exhibition are unique and to some extent vulnerable, it is essential that they be displayed with care. Not all materials are able withstand the hardships of display, and therefore each piece needs to be assessed carefully to determine its ability to withstand the rigors of an exhibition. In particular, when exhibited items are archival artifacts or paper-based objects, preservation considerations need be emphasized because damage and change in such materials is cumulative and irreversible.[2] Two trusted sources – the National Information Standard Organization's[3] Environmental Conditions for Exhibiting Library and Archival Materials, and the British Library's Guidance for Exhibiting Library and Archive Materials – have established indispensable criteria to help curtail the deleterious effects of exhibitions on library and archival materials. These criteria may be divided into five main preservation categories: Environmental concerns of the exhibition space; Length of the exhibition; Individual cases; Display methods used on individual objects; and Security.
[edit]Environmental concerns of the exhibition space


MARTa Herford in Herford, Germany. M for Möbel, ART for Art and a for Ambiente
The main concerns of exhibition environments include light, relative humidity, and temperature.
Light
Light wavelength, intensity, and duration contribute collectively to the rate of material degradation in exhibitions.[4] The intensity of visible light in the display space should be low enough to avoid object deterioration, but bright enough for viewing. A patron’s tolerance of low level illumination can be aided by reducing ambient light levels to a level lower than that falling on the exhibit.[5] Visible light levels should be maintained at between 50 lux and 100 lux depending on the light sensitivity of objects.[6] An items level of toleration will depend on the inks or pigments being exposed and the duration of the exhibition time. A maximum exhibition length should initially be determined for each exhibited item based on its light sensitivity, anticipated light level, and its cumulative past and projected exhibition exposure.
Light levels need to be measured when the exhibition is prepared. UV light meters will check radiation levels in an exhibit space, and data event loggers help determine visible light levels over an extended period of time. Blue wool standards cards can also be utilized to predict the extent to which materials will be damaged during exhibits.[7] UV radiation must be eliminated to the extent it is physically possible; it is recommended that light with a wavelength below 400 nm (ultraviolet radiation) be limited to no more than 75 microwatts per lumen at 10 to 100 lux.[8] Furthermore, exposure to natural light is undesirable because of its intensity and high UV content. When such exposure is unavoidable, preventative measures must be taken to control UV radiation, including the use of blinds, shades, curtains, UV filtering films, and UV-filtering panels in windows or cases. Artificial light sources are safer options for exhibition. Among these sources, incandescent lamps are most suitable because they emit little or no UV radiation.[9] Fluorescent lamps, common in most institutions, may be used only when they produce a low UV output and when covered with plastic sleeves before exhibition.[10] Though tungsten-halogen lamps are currently a favorite artificial lighting source, they still give off significant amounts of UV radiation; use these only with special UV filters and dimmers.[11] Lights should be lowered or turned off completely when visitors are not in the exhibition space.
Relative humidity (RH)
The exhibition space's relative humidity (RH) should be set to a value between 35% and 50%.[12] The maximum acceptable variation should be 5% on either side of this range. Seasonal changes of 5% are also allowed. The control of relative humidity is especially critical for vellum and parchment materials, which are extremely sensitive to changes in relative humidity and may contract violently and unevenly if displayed in too dry an environment.
Temperature
For preservation purposes, cooler temperatures are always recommended. The temperature of the display space should not exceed 72 °F.[13] A lower temperature of down to 50 °F can be considered safe for a majority of objects. The maximum acceptable variation in this range is 5 °F, meaning that the temperature should not go above 77 °F and below 45 °F. As temperature and relative humidity are interdependent, temperature should be reasonably constant so that relative humidity can be maintained as well. Controlling the environment with 24-hour air conditioning and dehumidification is the most effective way of protecting an exhibition from serious fluctuations.
[edit]Length of the exhibition


Poster, Bruges, 1902
One factor that influences how well materials will fare in an exhibition is the length of the show. The longer an item is exposed to harmful environmental conditions, the more likely that it will experience deterioration. Many museums and libraries have permanent exhibitions, and installed exhibitions have the potential to be on the view without any changes for years.
Damage from a long exhibition is usually caused by light. The degree of deterioration is different for each respective object. For paper-based items, the suggested maximum length of time that they should be on display is three months per year, or 42 kilolux hours of light per year – whichever comes first.[14]
An exhibition log report, including records of the length of the exhibition time and the light level of the display, may prevent objects from being exhibited too frequently. Displayed items need to be inspected regularly for evidence of damage or change.[15] It is recommended that high-quality facsimiles of especially delicate or fragile materials be displayed in lieu of originals for longer exhibitions.[16]
[edit]Individual cases
Library or archival materials are usually displayed in cases or frames. Cases provide a physically and chemically secure environment. Vertical cases are acceptable for small or single-sheet items, and horizontal cases can be used for a variety of objects, including three-dimensional items such as opened or closed books, and flat paper items. All these objects can be arranged simultaneously in one horizontal case under a unified theme.
Materials used for case construction should be chosen carefully because component materials can easily become a significant source of pollutants or harmful fumes for displayed objects. Off-gassing from materials used in the construction of the exhibition case and/or fabrics used for lining the case can be destructive. Pollutants may cause visible deterioration, including discoloration of surfaces and corrosion. Examples of evaluative criteria to be used in deeming materials suitable for use in exhibit display could be the potential of contact-transfer of harmful substances, water solubility or dry-transfer of dyes, the dry-texture of paints, pH, and abrasiveness.[17]
If possible, use only new cases constructed of safe materials such as metal, plexiglass, or some sealed woods.[18] Separating certain materials from the display section of an exhibition case by lining relevant surfaces with an impermeable barrier film will help protect items from damage. Any fabrics that line or decorate the case (e.g. polyester blend fabric), and any adhesives used in the process, should also be tested to determine any risk. Using internal buffers and pollutant absorbers, such as silica gel, activated carbon, or zeolite, is a good way to control RH and pollutants. Buffers and absorbers should be placed out of sight in the base or behind the backboard of a case. If the case is to be painted, it is recommended that one avoid oil paints. Acrylic or Latex paint is preferable.
[edit]Display methods


A photography exhibition in Moscow, 2010
There are two kinds of objects displayed at the library and archival exhibition – bound materials and unbound materials. Bound materials include books and pamphlets, and unbound materials include manuscripts, cards, drawings, and other two-dimensional items. The observance of proper display conditions will help minimize any potential physical damage. All items displayed must be adequately supported and secured.
Unbound materials
Unbound materials, usually single-sheet items, need to be attached securely to the mounts, unless matted or encapsulated. Metal fasteners, pins, screws, and thumbtacks should not come in direct contact with any exhibit items.[19] Instead, photo corners, polyethylene, or polyester film straps may hold the object to the support. Objects may also be encapsulated in polyester film, though old and untreated acidic papers should be professionally deacidified before encapsulation.[20] Avoid potential slippage during encapsulation – when possible, use ultrasonic or heat seals. For objects that need to be hung (and that may require more protection than lightweight polyester film), matting would be an effective alternative.
Objects in frames should be separated from harmful materials through matting, glazing, and backing layers. Matting, which consists of two pH-neutral or alkaline boards with a window cut in the top board to enable the object to be seen, can be used to support and enhance the display of single sheet or folded items. Backing layers of archival cardboard should be thick enough to protect objects. Moreover, any protective glazing used should never come in direct contact with objects.[21] Frames should be well-sealed and hung securely, allowing a space for air circulation between the frame and the wall.
Bound materials
The most common way to display bound materials is closed and lying horizontally. If a volume is shown open, the object should be open only as much as its binding allows. Common practice is to open volumes at an angle no greater than 135°.[22] There are some types of equipment that help support volumes as they displayed openly: blocks or wedges, which hold a book cover to reduce stain at the book hinge; cradles, which support bound volumes as they lay open without stress to the binding structure; and polyester film strips, which help to secure open leaves. Textblock supports are best used in conjunction with book cradles where the textblock is greater than 1/2 inch, or where the textblock noticeably sags.[23] Regardless of its method of support, however, it is with noting that any book that is kept open for long periods can cause damage. One should turn an exhibited book's pages every few days in order to protect pages from overexposure to light and spread any strain on the binding structure.
[edit]Security
Because exhibited items are often of special interest, they demand a high level of security to reduce the risk of loss from theft or vandalism. Exhibition cases should be securely locked. In addition, cases may be glazed with a material that hinders penetration and that when broken does not risk shards of glass falling on the exhibits.[24] Whenever possible, the exhibition area should be patrolled; a 24-hour security presence is recommended when precious treasures are exhibited.[25] Finally, the exhibition is best protected when equipped with intruder alarms, which can be fitted at entry points to the building and internal areas.

Third Thursday Art Walk RaftingOregon's mighty rivers ? including many designated Wild and Scenic ? offer miles of thrills and spills. From challen? Girlfriends? GetawayI wanted to get out of town and try something different, some combination of physical and ? of something every from is Visual Art Art EventsThird Thursday Walk December 15 to December 20 La Grande, 97850 Map phone: (541) 624-2800 rateThe Third Thursday of month, the studios and galleries of downtown La Grande, open up doors 5-8pm, to showcase the latest work by and regional artists. La Grande boasts a surprising number of artists per capita, and there always new to check out. Its the perfect reason to get out and take a stroll in this evolving community.