A festival or gala is an event, usually and ordinarily staged by a local community, which centers on and celebrates some unique aspect of that community and the Festival.
Among many religions, a feast is a set of celebrations in honour of God or gods. A feast and a festival are historically interchangeable. However, the term "feast" has also entered common secular parlance as a synonym for any large or elaborate meal. When used as in the meaning of a festival, most often refers to a religious festival rather than a film or art festival.
In the Christian liturgical calendar there are two principal feasts, properly known as the Feast of the Nativity of our Lord (Christmas) and the Feast of the Resurrection, (Easter). In the Catholic, Eastern Orthodox, and Anglican liturgical calendars there are a great number of lesser feasts throughout the year commemorating saints, sacred events, doctrines, etc.
Contents  [hide] 
1 Etymology
2 Function
3 Types of festivals
3.1 Seasonal festivals
3.2 General
4 Lists of festivals
5 Ancient Egyptian festivals
6 See also
7 Notes
[edit]Etymology

The word fest derives from the Middle English, from Middle French word festivus, from the Latin word festivus. Festival was first recorded as a noun in 1589. Before it had been used as an adjective from the fourteenth century, meaning to celebrate a church holiday. The etymology of feast is very similar to that of festival. The word "feste" comes from Middle English, from Middle French, from the Latin word festa. Feast first came into usage as a noun circa 1200, and feast was used as a verb circa 1300.[1] A festival is a special occasion of feasting or celebration, that is usually religious. There can be many different types of festivals, like Halloween, Saturnellia, and Christmas.
[edit]Function

Festivals, of many types, serve to meet specific needs, as well as to provide entertainment. These times of celebration offer a sense of belonging for religious, social, or geographical groups. Modern festivals that focus on cultural or ethnic topics seek to inform members of their traditions. In past times, festivals were times when the elderly shared stories and transferred certain knowledge to the next generation. Historic feasts often provided a means for unity among families and for people to find mates. Select anniversaries have annual festivals to commemorate previous significant occurrences.
[edit]Types of festivals

There are numerous types of festivals in the world. Though many have religious origins, others involve seasonal change or have some cultural significance.[2] Also, certain institutions celebrate their own festival (often called "fests") to mark some significant occasions in their history. These occasions could be the day these institutions were founded or any other event which they decide to commemorate periodically, usually annually.
[edit]Seasonal festivals
Seasonal festivals are determined by the solar and the lunar calendars and by the cycle of the seasons. The changing of the season was celebrated because of its effect on food supply. Ancient Egyptians would celebrate the seasonal inundation caused by the Nile River, a form of irrigation, which provided fertile land for crops. In the Alps, in autumn the return of the cattle from the mountain pastures to the stables in the valley is celebrated as Almabtrieb. A recognized winter festival, the Chinese New Year, is set by the lunar calendar, and celebrated from the day of the second new moon after the winter solstice. An important type of seasonal festivals are those related with the agricultural seasons. Dree Festival of the Apatanis living in Lower Subansiri District of Arunachal Pradesh is one such important festival, which is celebrated every year from July 4 to 7 praying for bumper crop harvest.
[edit]General
Further information: Category:Festivals
Abare Festival
Arts festival
Beer festival
Comedy festival
Japanese Cultural festival
Esala Perahera festival
Film festival
Fire festival
Folk festival
Food festival
Literary festival
Mela Festival
Music festival
Oyster Festival
Peanut Festival
Ribfest
Religious festival
Renaissance festival
Rock festival
Science festival
Sindhi festivals
Storytelling festival
Theatre festival
Wine festivals
Winter festivals
[edit]Lists of festivals

Main article: List of festivals
[edit]Ancient Egyptian festivals

Most Ancient Egyptian festivals were religious, but others were not such as one festival established by Rameses III to celebrate his victory over the Libyans. When feasts occurred, they were either determined by lunar cycles or the Egyptian calendar. Festivals were large celebrations with plenty of food available. In one festival in the 12th century BC, 11,341 loaves of bread and 385 jars of beer were given to the public. The Sed festival celebrated the thirtieth year of a pharaoh's rule and then every three (or four in one case) years after that. Iranian traditional festivals: Mehregan festival, Norooz or nuroz festival, qadir festival, Chahar shanbehesori festival. Islamic festivals: EId-ul-Adha festival (biggest Islamic festival) and Id-ul-Fiter festival is another Islamic festival (second-biggest).
Tualatin Crawfish Festival CyclingWhether you?re road biking or in-town cruising, Oregon has the trails and bike paths to suit you? Artisan ProducersDrive along just about any road or byway in Oregon and you?re bound to see the signs. They?re usually handmad? Girlfriends? GetawayI wanted to get out of town and try something different, some combination of physical and ? enjoy Hood Mt. & the GorgeMt. Hood?s slopes beg to be climbed, skied, snowboarded and? The City of Tillamook Oregon CoastTillamook in the heart of Oregon Coast dairy country? The of Brookings Oregon CoastBrookings is located on America's Wild Rivers and has? is FestivalsTualatin Crawfish Festival August 10 to August Tualatin Commons/ Tualatin Community Park Tualatin, 97062 Map phone: (503) 692-0780Visit rateCelebrate good eating at the Tualatin Crawfish Festival, the nation?s oldest crawfish festival. This a fun-filled family event with a variety of food, entertainment, contests, activities for all ages and more. festivities kick-off Friday evng with a Crawfish Cook-Off and entertainment at Tualatin Commons. On a pancake breakfast, the Crawfish Crawl 5K race, and parade at the Commons before heading over to Tualatin Community Park for the festival opening 10am.For information of the schedule of events and admission, visit: http://tualatincrawfishfestival.com/.